# Mobile Homies Project Proposal 
- ### *Who:* Paola Tirado Escareño and Aurelia Mora
- ### *What:Is there a land-use difference between Mobile Home Parks (MHP) that have closed down versus those that remain open?
  - Mobile home parks (MHP) have been an affordable housing option for decades, costing up to 50 percent less than conventional homes (Manufactured Housing Institute). Typically mobile home and/or RV owners rent out a lot in parks, situating them in a precarious position. While they remain as one of the last affordable housing options in the county, over the last few years private equity firms have bought off many MHP. This has resulted in battles over rent increases and displacement as MHP has been converted for other uses. Our project was inspired by a study that found most mobile home parks in Los Angles County were located in areas not zoned for residential use. Knowing that we want to expand on this topic by comparing the locations of MHP that have closed down (N=96) versus those that remain open (N=596) and see if there are any key differences in zoning, along with demographics (race, income, age). More specifically, we seek to identify if their location is an issue of equity by analyzing the racial and socioeconomic demographics of residents in mobile home parks.
  - MHPs have often been sold as an affordable housing option for those who have limited resources and opportunities for homeownership. However, our research has revealed that MHPs are not necessarily the affordable option they are presented as. By visualizing the demographics and the level of access that exists within the cities that contain the most MHPs, we seek to argue how mobile homes as an affordable housing option can serve as a pathway to homeownership if existing practices are refined to serve the residents rather than the property owners. 
- ### *Where:* Greater LA County
  - Our project will be analyzing Mobile Home Parks (MHP) at the County level. Considering that there are few MHPs in the City of Los Angeles, working at the County level allows us to have significantly higher observations to analyze. Using this [map](https://images.app.goo.gl/TFHKFsHWULFbxzD26) as a guide, we will be exploring locations in which there are existing public transit lines, to determine proximity and ability to access. We will also be analyzing supporting indicators at the census tract level. By using LA County census tract and neighborhood data, we aim to have a more centralized analysis of demographics, job opportunities, and social characteristics. 
- ### *Data Sources*: 
  > [CAHCD-mp-park-query-2021_10_07.csv](https://github.com/aureliamc/up206a-project-mobile_homies/files/7309835/CAHCD-mp-park-query-2021_10_07.csv)
  * Our main dataset includes the location of mobile home parks in the Los Angeles County and acquired digitally through the [California Department of Housing and Community Development](https://casas.hcd.ca.gov/casas/cmirMp/onlineQuery) website. This dataset includes addresses for each MHP, along with the amount of mobile homes and reacreational vehicles (rv) per park. This data does not include coordinates, meaning that geocoding will be necessary in order to use it for this project.  
  >[ACS Demographics.zip](https://github.com/aureliamc/up206a-project-mobile_homies/files/7309857/ACS.Demographics.zip)
  * Our second dataset includes demographic data of Los Angeles County by Census Tract. We will be using this data to analyze the following variables: total population, sex, age, and race & ethnicity (Hispanic or Latino (of any race),  Not Hispanic or Latino, White alone, Black or African American alone, American Indian and Alaska Native alone, Asian alone, Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific Islander alone, Some other race alone, Two or more races). This data is from the American Community Survey (ACS) 2015-2019 5-year data profile, and was acuired electronically through the [Census ACS website](https://www.census.gov/acs/www/data/data-tables-and-tools/data-profiles/2019/). 
  
  >[TCAC/HCD Opportunity Area Maps](https://github.com/aureliamc/up206a-project-mobile_homies/blob/main/GroupAssignments/data/final_2021_public.shp.zip)
  * This is a new data set that we have found through the Othering and Belonging Institute at UC Berkeley. This data, compiled by the California Fair Housing Task Force identifies and visualizes place-based characteristics linked to critical life outcomes, such as educational attainment, earnings from employment, and economic
mobility.We believe the data from this file will provide greater context to the the existing conditions in cities where MHPs are located and the access to opportunity that exists for residents in these areas. 
- ### *Scope of Work:*
  * Our goal is to analyze MHP that have closed down as of 2021 and those that remain open to see if the data shows us distinct differences between land use. We will:
    -   Understand where MHP have existed/exists today.
    -   Land-use- we know of open MHP but we also need to learn about those that have closed down. 
    -   Demographics- we want to understand if there are key demographic differences in the areas where MHP closed and their land uses.
    -   Explore the historical context of communities with the highest MHP concentrations to better understand how structural forces could have influenced existing conditions.

- ### *Objectives: The "Why?"*
  - Where one lives often determines the opportunities that are available and one's quality of life, such as basic needs resources, proximity to jobs, social determinants of health, quality of education, and general safety. As low-income and working-class communities continue to be displaced, the need to assess all affordable housing options throughout the County becomes an increasingly pressing matter. Mobile homes present an additional affordable housing option. Mobile homes are a housing alternative often overlooked in planning. Our goal is to create a visual representation of where these homes exist in the County, and comprise a spatial analysis to better understand barriers, but also how these communities have succeeded to maintain livable habitats for county residents; both of which can help guide future planning practices for MHP residents. 
